
1. https://www.journaldev.com/23647/python-reverse-string

2. User-defined functions vs. Built-in / Pre-defined functions
   https://stackoverflow.com/questions/17159904/user-defined-functions-vs-built-in-pre-defined-functions

3.   
 

Algorithm	      Time Complexity	               Space Complexity
               Best	 Average	       Worst	               Worst
Quicksort	   Ω(n log(n))	 Θ(n log(n))	O(n^2)	      O(log(n))
Mergesort	Ω(n log(n))	Θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))	   O(n)
Heapsort	   Ω(n log(n))	Θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))	      O(1)
Bubble Sort	Ω(n)	Θ(n^2)	O(n^2)	               O(1)
Insertion Sort	Ω(n)	Θ(n^2)	O(n^2)	            O(1)
Selection Sort	Ω(n^2)	Θ(n^2)	O(n^2)	         O(1)
Cubesort	Ω(n)	Θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))	            O(n)

4. https://www.python-course.eu/python3_deep_copy.php

5. https://medium.com/@meghamohan/mutable-and-immutable-side-of-python-c2145cf72747

6. https://medium.com/@george.seif94/a-tour-of-the-top-5-sorting-algorithms-with-python-code-43ea9aa02889
    [Sorting algorithms]

7. Built-in String Methods
   
Sr.No.	Methods with Description
1	capitalize()
Capitalizes first letter of string

2	center(width, fillchar)
Returns a space-padded string with the original string centered to a total of width columns.

3	count(str, beg= 0,end=len(string))
Counts how many times str occurs in string or in a substring of string if starting index beg and ending index end are given.

4	decode(encoding='UTF-8',errors='strict')
Decodes the string using the codec registered for encoding. encoding defaults to the default string encoding.

5	encode(encoding='UTF-8',errors='strict')
Returns encoded string version of string; on error, default is to raise a ValueError unless errors is given with 'ignore' or 'replace'.

6	endswith(suffix, beg=0, end=len(string))
Determines if string or a substring of string (if starting index beg and ending index end are given) ends with suffix; returns true if so and false otherwise.

7	expandtabs(tabsize=8)
Expands tabs in string to multiple spaces; defaults to 8 spaces per tab if tabsize not provided.

8	find(str, beg=0 end=len(string))
Determine if str occurs in string or in a substring of string if starting index beg and ending index end are given returns index if found and -1 otherwise.

9	index(str, beg=0, end=len(string))
Same as find(), but raises an exception if str not found.

10	isalnum()
Returns true if string has at least 1 character and all characters are alphanumeric and false otherwise.

11	isalpha()
Returns true if string has at least 1 character and all characters are alphabetic and false otherwise.

12	isdigit()
Returns true if string contains only digits and false otherwise.

13	islower()
Returns true if string has at least 1 cased character and all cased characters are in lowercase and false otherwise.

14	isnumeric()
Returns true if a unicode string contains only numeric characters and false otherwise.

15	isspace()
Returns true if string contains only whitespace characters and false otherwise.

16	istitle()
Returns true if string is properly "titlecased" and false otherwise.

17	isupper()
Returns true if string has at least one cased character and all cased characters are in uppercase and false otherwise.

18	join(seq)
Merges (concatenates) the string representations of elements in sequence seq into a string, with separator string.

19	len(string)
Returns the length of the string

20	ljust(width[, fillchar])
Returns a space-padded string with the original string left-justified to a total of width columns.

21	lower()
Converts all uppercase letters in string to lowercase.

22	lstrip()
Removes all leading whitespace in string.

23	maketrans()
Returns a translation table to be used in translate function.

24	max(str)
Returns the max alphabetical character from the string str.

25	min(str)
Returns the min alphabetical character from the string str.

26	replace(old, new [, max])
Replaces all occurrences of old in string with new or at most max occurrences if max given.

27	rfind(str, beg=0,end=len(string))
Same as find(), but search backwards in string.

28	rindex( str, beg=0, end=len(string))
Same as index(), but search backwards in string.

29	rjust(width,[, fillchar])
Returns a space-padded string with the original string right-justified to a total of width columns.

30	rstrip()
Removes all trailing whitespace of string.

31	split(str="", num=string.count(str))
Splits string according to delimiter str (space if not provided) and returns list of substrings; split into at most num substrings if given.

32	splitlines( num=string.count('\n'))
Splits string at all (or num) NEWLINEs and returns a list of each line with NEWLINEs removed.

33	startswith(str, beg=0,end=len(string))
Determines if string or a substring of string (if starting index beg and ending index end are given) starts with substring str; returns true if so and false otherwise.

34	strip([chars])
Performs both lstrip() and rstrip() on string.

35	swapcase()
Inverts case for all letters in string.

36	title()
Returns "titlecased" version of string, that is, all words begin with uppercase and the rest are lowercase.

37	translate(table, deletechars="")
Translates string according to translation table str(256 chars), removing those in the del string.

38	upper()
Converts lowercase letters in string to uppercase.

39	zfill (width)
Returns original string leftpadded with zeros to a total of width characters; intended for numbers, zfill() retains any sign given (less one zero).

40	isdecimal()
Returns true if a unicode string contains only decimal characters and false otherwise.

8. Built-in List Functions & Methods

Python includes the following list functions −

Sr.No.	Function with Description
1	cmp(list1, list2)
Compares elements of both lists.

2	len(list)
Gives the total length of the list.

3	max(list)
Returns item from the list with max value.

4	min(list)
Returns item from the list with min value.

5	list(seq)
Converts a tuple into list.

Python includes following list methods

Sr.No.	Methods with Description
1	list.append(obj)
Appends object obj to list

2	list.count(obj)
Returns count of how many times obj occurs in list

3	list.extend(seq)
Appends the contents of seq to list

4	list.index(obj)
Returns the lowest index in list that obj appears

5	list.insert(index, obj)
Inserts object obj into list at offset index

6	list.pop(obj=list[-1])
Removes and returns last object or obj from list

7	list.remove(obj)
Removes object obj from list

8	list.reverse()
Reverses objects of list in place

9	list.sort([func])
Sorts objects of list, use compare func if given

9. Built-in Tuple Functions

Python includes the following tuple functions −

1	cmp(tuple1, tuple2)
Compares elements of both tuples.

2	len(tuple)
Gives the total length of the tuple.

3	max(tuple)
Returns item from the tuple with max value.

4	min(tuple)
Returns item from the tuple with min value.

5	tuple(seq)
Converts a list into tuple.

10. Built-in Dictionary Functions & Methods

Python includes the following dictionary functions −

1	cmp(dict1, dict2)
Compares elements of both dict.

2	len(dict)
Gives the total length of the dictionary. This would be equal to the number of items in the dictionary.

3	str(dict)
Produces a printable string representation of a dictionary

4	type(variable)
Returns the type of the passed variable. If passed variable is dictionary, then it would return a dictionary type.

Python includes following dictionary methods −

Sr.No.	Methods with Description
1	dict.clear()
Removes all elements of dictionary dict

2	dict.copy()
Returns a shallow copy of dictionary dict

3	dict.fromkeys()
Create a new dictionary with keys from seq and values set to value.

4	dict.get(key, default=None)
For key key, returns value or default if key not in dictionary

5	dict.has_key(key)
Returns true if key in dictionary dict, false otherwise

6	dict.items()
Returns a list of dict's (key, value) tuple pairs

7	dict.keys()
Returns list of dictionary dict's keys

8	dict.setdefault(key, default=None)
Similar to get(), but will set dict[key]=default if key is not already in dict

9	dict.update(dict2)
Adds dictionary dict2's key-values pairs to dict

10	dict.values()
Returns list of dictionary dict's values
